PART A 


Question 1: Find the area between the parabolas $y^{2}=x$ and $x^{2}=y.$ 



Question 2: Determine whether the complex series $\Sigma_{n=1}^{\infty}(\frac{1}{2^{n}}+\frac{i}{3^{n}})$ is convergent or not. 



Question 3: Write down the Maclaurin expansion of the complex function $f(z)=\frac{1}{1-z^{2}}.$ 



Question 4: Find the integral $\int_{C}\frac{z^{2}+2z+2}{z^{2}-1}dz$ where C is the circle $|z|=\frac{1}{2}.$ 

Question 8 (Appears on Page 1): Let the coordinate system $OX_{1}X_{2}X_{3}$ rotates about the $OX_{1}$ axis by an angle $\frac{\pi}{6}$ in the anti-clockwise sense. Then write down the transformation matrix. 



Question 6: Find the Fourier sine transformation of $f(t)=\begin{cases}1&;0<t<1\\ 0&;t>1\end{cases}$ 



Question 7: Find the minimum value of $z=x+y$ subjected to constraints $-4x+y\ge4$ and $x,y\ge0$. 



Question 8 (Appears on Page 2): If an experiment observed a p-value for an ANOVA as 0.00778, what you can say about the conclusion regarding the null hypothesis associated with this ANOVA at 5% significant level. 



Question 9: Explain what it means by Degeneracy in solution of a linear programming problem. 

Question 10: In an ANOVA it was found that the null hypothesis of a test was accepted at 5% significant level. If the same ANOVA is used to test the same hypothesis at 1% significant level Explain about the result of the test. 

PART B

Q1

(a) Using the transformation equations between the Cartesian and Cylindrical coordinate systems, find the Jacobian matrix / of the transformation between Cartesian to Cylindrical and Cylindrical to Cartesian coordinate systems. 

(b) Verify the Gauss divergence theorem for $F=(x^{2}-yz)i+(y^{2}-xz)j+(z^{2}-xy)k$ taken over the rectangular parallelopiped bounded by the planes $x=0$, $x=1$, $y=0$, $y=2$, $z=0$ and $z=3$. 

Q2

(a) Verify Stokes' theorem for a vector field is defined by $F=(x^{2}-y^{2})i+2xyj$ over a rectangular surface in xy plane bounded by lines $x = 0$, $x=a$, $y=0$ and $y=a$ where $a$ is a non-zero real number and the boundary is described by counterclockwise sense. 

(b) Find the constants $a$, $b$ and $c$ such that $F=(x+2y+az)i+(bx-3y-z)j+(4x+cy+2z)k$ is a conservative vector field and hence find $\phi(x,y,z)$ such that $F=\nabla\phi$. 

Q3

(a) For the conformal transformation $w=z^{2}$ show that the circle $|z-1|=1$ transforms into the cardioid $R=2(1+cos~\phi)$, where $Re^{i\phi}$ in the $w$ plane. 

(b) Find the Laurent series expansions of the function $f(z)=\frac{1}{(z-1)(z-2)};z\in\mathbb{C}-\{1,2\}$ from $z_{0}=0$ in each of the following domains: 

i. $|z|<1$ 

ii. $1<|z|<2$ 

iii. $|z|>2$ 

(c) Apply the Cauchy's Residue Theorem to evaluate $\int_{C}\frac{dz}{sin(iz)}$ where $C:|z|=4$. 

Q4

(a) Let $a$ and $b$ are two arbitrary vectors. Hence show that: 

i. $a\cdot b$ is a zeroth order tensor. 

ii. $a\times b$ is a first order tensor. 

(b) A set of Cartesian axes is rotated about the origin to coincide with the unit vectors $e_{1}=(\frac{\sqrt{3}}{4},\frac{1}{4},\frac{\sqrt{3}}{2})$, $e_{2}=(\frac{3}{4},\frac{\sqrt{3}}{4},-\frac{1}{2})$, $e_{3}=(-\frac{1}{2},\frac{\sqrt{3}}{2},0)$. Write down the rotation matrix corresponding to this rotation. 

(c) Let the moment of inertia tensor $I_{i,j}$ be given by $I_{i,j}=[\begin{matrix}a&b&0\\ b&a&0\\ 0&0&c\end{matrix}],$ where $a,b,c\in\mathbb{R}$. Hence find: 

i. Eigen values and eigenvector matrix of $I_{i,j}$. 

ii. Matrix of tensor components referred to the principal axes. 

iii. Verify the result in part (ii) by using the Transformation Law of tensors. 

Q5

(a) Use the method of separation of variables to solve the partial differential equation $\frac{\partial^{2}u}{\partial x^{2}}=\frac{\partial u}{\partial t}$. Given that $u(t,0)=u(t,1)=0$ and $u=\Sigma_{n=1}^{\infty}sin(n\pi x)$ when $t\rightarrow0$. 

(b) Using the cosine Fourier Transform, solve the partial differential equation $\frac{\partial u}{\partial t}=\frac{\partial^{2}u}{\partial x^{2}}$ for $0\le x<\infty$, $t>0$. Subject to the conditions: 

i. $u(x,0)=0$ for $x\ge0$. 

ii. $\frac{\partial u}{\partial x}(0,t)=-1$ 

Q6

Consider the linear programming problem: $Max~Z=500x+300y$ subject to $15x+5y\le300$, $10x+6y\le240$, $8x+12y\le450$, and $x,y\ge0$. 

(a) i. Use the graphical method to solve the above linear programming problem. 

(a) ii. What you can say about the optimal solution of the above linear programming problem. 

(b) i. Use simplex method to solve the above problem. 

(b) ii. Confirm the comment that you have given about the optimal solution in part a (ii) using simplex method. 

Q7

(a) Identify the factor variable and dependent variable from the provided concrete pH experiment table. 

(b) State the null and alternative hypothesis associated with the customers claim. 

(c) Test the hypothesis about the customers claim at 5% significant level using ANOVA table and interpret the findings. 

(d) State the assumptions you made for this test. 

